Hello
and welcome to Using the ensure Assertion, which is going to be pretty cool!
I think I may be saying assertation through the video, so if you hear me saying that, just laugh
for me, I mean Assertion. So what's going to happen is we
cannot aim, at the moment, and what we're going to have by the end of the video is a very very useful
log message that comes out, that tells us precisely why we can't aim,
because we have a problem with a pointer and it tells us exactly
where in the code to go look. So this is going to be a super useful new pointer protection paradigm. I'll see you in there!
So I want to get this pointer working, but also I want to get aiming
working. Now it's interesting that my game driving still works. I can still
move my tank forward and backwards, that's not a problem. I'm not quite
sure why the AI tank's not moving. He's probably just stuck, it's not something we need to deal
with right now. I'll pop another one down just to check. So,
yeah the AI tanks can move but none of us are aiming, neither us nor the AI
tanks. What is going on there? Well what is good is that we failed graciously,
the program is still running. What is bad is we're masking
some pretty nasty problems, which is that we've got null pointers. Now the
way that we currently do our pointer protection, if you have a look,
if not (!GetControlledTank()), that's a typical one, then return.
So if we can't find the pointer, we don't execute the functionality and
I like that I think that's good, but what's bad is we have no idea that we've
got null pointers, and we're not entirely sure right now why we can't aim. Now can troll
through and work out what's wrong and why we can't aim, but we don't have to do
that and we want to know very early that our pointers are null and that other major
errors are happening. So let's talk about my brew
or my criteria for Ben's Game Error Handling Criteria.
OK so I think that execution should continue if
possible, that our design should be sufficiently modular and separated, so that if
something goes wrong it doesn't take everything else with it, i.e. the aiming is not taking the movement with it.
We must get a helpful warning, ideally with a line number. It
sounds like it's asking a lot but there is a solution, we want to know exactly where in our code this is going
wrong. We can compile out the checks for production,
if we like, or we could organize that the logs,
when it crashes, get written to a
log file that could be sent back to use, the developer, with a line
number, that would be ideal! So the solution is this, instead of doing things like if not (!(Left
Track && RightTrack)) return, I know we do something slightly different but you get the idea,
that becomes if not ensure (!ensure(LeftTrack && RightTrack))
return. Now this ensure is a very special macro keyword, it's
something called an assertion, and what it does is it goes and checks that the condition
in the brackets, the LeftTrack and the RightTrack is true, and if it is it's fine it
just carries on. But if it's false, i.e. not ensure all of that stuff in the brackets,
then we return and we continue to execute
which is great, but the fact that ensure has run
means that it will write a load of very very useful stuff to our console. Let's
go and find Unreal's docs about assertions. Here they are!
You can just look for "unreal assertions"
and this is also in your resources on Udemy.
You can have a quick, in fact, as a little micro exercise just pause the video. Have a quick
scan through this, take just 30 seconds to have a quick scan. Look particularly at the
last bit of it.
Cool! So look, if we scroll down we've got this thing here
called ensure. It tells you a little bit more about what it does, and this is the type of pattern
if (ensure blah, then do that. OK
so it's very cool! We want our assertions, these
conditions to always be true, we never want these to happen at runtime. But it's incredibly
helpful, during development, to put these in place. Now, I want to  just give a tiny bit of credit
here, just at the right time in production...
I'm not sure how to say his name, Ghyslain probably, here from Canada
brought this issue up, we discussed it, and as quick as that we've put it into the
course. There's a more detailed discussion over on the community site, which is here,
and I will put both of these references for you into the resources.
So it shows that if you bring things up, at the right time in the
course, I'm happy to adjust the course and add some value. So thank you very much for that suggestion!
OK let's get on with it, let's do it! Let me show you how to do it it first. Let's
do it with this not GetControlledTank. What we do, if we say if not
(!ensure(GetControlledtank())), being careful with our brackets, then return.
Alright, let's just move on through these now!
I'll do one more with you. I'm going to look for "return" to start
with as a quick way of going through, in the entire project,
and if not ensure... No I won't do that one, I'll leave that one to you just
because I want to find a different pattern. Here you go, here's the one that I used in the example. I'm going to change
the logic around. If not (!ensure
then (LeftTrack && RightTrack)), I just think it reads better
like that. Or you could say if
ensure LeftTrack && ensure RightTrack if you wanted, but this will do.
The same thing, we'd use exactly the same pattern down here in the other one.
OK I've done enough of it for you, you're going to have to work out the logic for yourself
for the other bits. Indeed that's going to be your challenge is, I want you to use ensure everywhere.
Add ensure to all your pointer protection. You can't rely on searching for return with semicolon, by
the way, it's not the only way that we are doing pointer protection, so look through your .cpp
files. Find the null pointer that's stopping aiming and celebrate! Don't fix
this null pointer yet, it's an architectural issue we'll sort out in an upcoming video, but just celebrate
the amount of detail you get here, when you actually see this log for the first time!
Oh by the way, sometimes you'll need to close and reopen Unreal. If ensure's already run
once it may not run every single time you run, so that's just a heads up. But see if you can see
this thing working, it's really satisfying when it helps you find the problem.
OK welcome back! Let's do this! I'm just going to carry on through the
code now, starting by looking for returns because they're the quick wins. So
if not (!ensure(Barrel). In fact, I'm even going to
copy the ensure open bracket, because I think I'm going to be using it a lot.
If not Barrel or Turret. I think I'm going to show you the other way here,
just to show that you could say if not
ensure (Barrel) or not ensure (Turret). You could do that and give two
different ensures, it'll be a little slower but you'd know whether it was the barrel or the turret
that was missing. OK that's all the returns
I can find! Let's now go through the .cpp files and see where else we do this!
We don't do anything there in terms of pointer protection. Let's look at the Tank.
If not (!TankAimingComponent) return, OK so
we need to put one in there. If not (!ensure(TankAimingComponent)
return. Where else have we got it? Make sure why that didn't come up in that search.
Maybe I didn't go around enough times? If (Barrel && isReloaded). Now think about
this, is Reloaded is not something we want to do an ensure on, because
it's part of the logic of the game, it's not a problem
if Reloaded is not the case. So I'm actually going to change this around, I'm not going to
protect the Barrel here, I'm going to take that out. I'm just going to say if (isReloaded),
and then, I'm going to put a much more standard protection of the barrel here. If
not (!ensure... Oops, I haven't got it in the copy buffer anymore!
(!ensure(Barrel))
return. We'll go for that standard pattern there. If not (!ensure(Barrel))
return. OK let's keep looking!
TankAIController. If (ensure(PlayerTank).
Or you could say if not (!ensure
(PlayerTank)) return at the top, but let's do it this way here. I want to show you a variety of different ways of
doing it. It's important that you understand how it works, rather than just using a recipe. I don't
see anything else in that file. I'm just working through my files. Nothing in there.
Nothing in there.
If (ensure
(AimingComponent)), it's a pointer that we need to protect.
Possibly this (GetLookDirection
should pass, but I'm going to leave that one, because it's not a pointer
it's a function call.
OK nothing in the track or the
turret. OK let's go ahead and compile now. I'm just going
to sort out my output log. I think I want it? I do want it at the bottom of the screen, but I think I want these details
to be on the right, so yeah something like that.
Hmm, so I've got a syntax error, " 'Barrel': undeclared".
And I did see that, Tank.cpp(37). I put
a double L where I should have put a single L.
Apart from that we're going well. Hey that rhymed! I put a double L where I should have put a single L,
well apart from the... Anyway forget it. Forget the jokes, let's just get the
compilation going. Alright fantastic! We're going to clear the logs and play the game. Now watch what happens when I play the
game! There's quite a long pause and then if we search the logs for
"ensure", you'll see here the TankAimingComponent
has failed here, BattleTank, Tank.cpp
[Line: 31]. How useful is that? Tank.cpp [Line 31].
It's this that's failing and we know it is because, remember
we used to add it as a default sub-object, and then, we never actually got around to fixing it. And we've got
an architectural decision about how we're going to fix that; in fact, we're going to fix it in the very next video.
Congratulations on getting to grips with the ensure keyword, and I'll see you in the next video!